INTRODUCTlON.

*⁴

Homer says (Sat. 1. ro. 74),-

...An tua demens ‚

Valibus in luda‘s dattan‘ carmina malti!

Nou ego.
But hia genius and fame very early brought upon him the iate
which he deprecates, of having his works used as a literary text·
book in all kinds of schools. And this use ¹of his poetry has
brought with it several important consequences. In the first
place, it insured their preservation to our own times, while so
many writers have been absolutely lost. Secondly, it has pre-
vented any serious interpolation by imitators of later times.
Thirdly, it has caused an arrangement ol his works in manu-
scripts and in later printed editions which is not chronological ,
but educatioual. The Satires and‘Epodes were his earliest

poetical efforts, being written, forthe most part, about the same
time, between ac. 40 and ac. 30, though in manuscripts and
editions, aa well as in educational use, the Odes precede them.
Fourthly, it has produced in the manuscripts astate ol things
that is perhaps unparalleled in those ol any other author. Clas·
sicul authors generally have come down to usin such a form,
that by a careful study such as has been given to the subject

by the scholam ol the last fisty years, the manuscripts can be
divided into families, and their genesis and trustworthiness de·
termined with considerable accuracy and certainty. But with
Horace, the number and late date oi the manuscripta-some
two hundred and fifty, all probably oi later date than the tenth
century, -along with the uninterrupted cross correction ol one

 

